THE FINAL FRONTIER.
Kirk: SPACE:
OF THE STARSHIP ENTERPRISE.
THESE ARE THE VOYAGES
TO EXPLORE STRANGE NEW WORLDS,
ITS FIVE-YEAR MISSION:
AND NEW CIVILIZATIONS,
TO SEEK OUT NEW LIFE
WHERE NO MAN HAS GONE BEFORE.
TO BOLDLY GO
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 5554.4.
ORDERED TO SURVEY A NEW PLANET
THE ENTERPRISE HAS BEEN
THE PERIPHERY OF THE GALAXY.
RECENTLY DISCOVERED AT
Sulu: LIFE READINGS
ARE CONFUSED, SIR.
I CAN'T DECIPHER THEM.
SOMETHING ELSE, CAPTAIN.
Spock: THERE IS
I'M GETTING A READING
OF SOME KIND OF POWER
FROM THAT BUILDING.
[BEEPING]
[SQUEAKING]
WELL, NOW, WHAT'S THIS?
Sulu: CAPTAIN! CAPTAIN!
WHAT IS IT, MR. SULU?
TO SEE THIS YOURSELF, SIR.
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE
Kirk: WHAT IS THAT THING?
Sulu: IT'S A MOBILE PLANT.
BORE BACK INTO THE GROUND.
WHEN IT STOPS, ITS ROOTS
THEY'RE ALL OVER THE PLACE.
I THINK IT LIKES ME.
OUR OFFICERS TO MAKE FRIENDS
WE ALWAYS ENCOURAGE
WITH THE NATIVES.
CAPTAIN, THE POWER READING NOW
INCLUDES AN ELECTRONIC PROBE.
[RAPID BEEPING]
WE ARE BEING SCANNED.
PHASERS ON STUN. STAY ALERT.
MR. SULU, STAY HERE.
OW!
MUST HAVE BEEN A THORN.
ORIGINATES IN THIS WALL,
Spock: THE PROBE
AS DOES AN INCREDIBLY POWERFUL
FORCE SHIELD.
IT APPEARS TO BE AN AMALGAM
OF DEVICES DESIGNED TO
DEFEND AND PROTECT THE CITY
AND THIS BUILDING
IN PARTICULAR.
JIM! I'M PICKING UP
A HUMANOID READING
OF INCREDIBLE STRENGTH.
IT'S AS IF HE...
[SULU SCREAMING]
UNKNOWN TOXIN. CAN YOU HELP HIM?
HE'S BEEN POISONED.
I CAN'T GET A CORRELATION
WITH ANY KNOWN POISON.
MEDICAL COMPUTERS.
MAYBE THE SHIP'S
ONE MINUTE TO LIVE UNLESS
I CAN FIND AN ANSWER.
HE'S GOT ABOUT
MAYBE DYLOVENE.
NO GOOD.
TAKES TOO MUCH TIME TO WORK
IF IT DOES WORK.
MAYBE A STRONGER SHOT.
BE NECESSARY.
THAT WON'T
Kirk: WHO ARE YOU?
I AM CALLED AGMAR.
I BELIEVE WE CAN HELP.
A READING ON THEM?
ARE YOU GETTING
THE RESULTS ARE UNCLEAR.
A MOMENT, CAPTAIN.
NOW, JUST A MINUTE!
I CAN'T LET YOU,
WHATEVER YOU ARE,
SOME ALIEN DEW DROP!
INJECT HIM WITH
TO WAIT IS TO ASSURE
YOUR FRIEND'S DEATH.
I MUST PROCEED.
BONES, LET THEM HELP.
ARE OF BOTANICAL ORIGIN.
CAPTAIN, THESE BEINGS
INTELLIGENT PLANTS?
SO IT WOULD SEEM.
IT IS AN ANTIDOTE
QUICKLY ABSORBED.
RESPOND MOMENTARILY.
HE SHOULD BEGIN TO
THANK YOU.
WELCOME TO THE PLANET PHYLOS.
I'M CAPTAIN JAMES KIRK.
MR. SPOCK, DR. McCOY
AND MR. SULU.
YOU SEEM TO HAVE BEEN
EXPECTING US.
TRACKED AND SCANNED YOU.
OUR INSTRUMENTS HAVE
WE DID NOT WISH TO REVEAL
OURSELVES IMMEDIATELY.
AND WE HAVE A FEAR OF ALIENS.
WE ARE A PEACEFUL RACE,
[SULU GROANING]
WHAT HAPPENED TO HIM?
BY THE RETLAW PLANT.
HE WAS BITTEN
ONLY IF UNATTENDED.
IT IS DEADLY
YOUR MEDICATION
WORKED QUICKLY.
A MINOR ACHIEVEMENT.
MINOR? OUR SCIENCE DOESN'T HAVE
ANYTHING THAT WORKS THAT FAST.
YOURS MUST BE INCREDIBLE.
IS DECREASING FAST.
THE TOXIN LEVEL
BODY READINGS UP TO NORMAL.
HOW IS IT YOU KNEW YOUR ANTIDOTE
WOULD WORK ON A HUMAN?
THERE HAVE BEEN HUMANOID ALIENS
HERE BEFORE.
OF COMMUNICATION...
YOUR METHOD
A VODER, OR TRANSLATOR.
MOST EFFICIENT.
BUT I DON'T LIKE PUZZLES.
I'M SORRY, AGMAR,
THE REST OF YOUR PEOPLE?
WHERE ARE
COME. I WILL SHOW YOU.
Agmar: OUR PEOPLE.
Spock: NERVE TISSUE.
IS EXCEPTIONALLY HIGH.
MASS DENSITY
READINGS INDICATE
THE BEINGS USED ALMOST
70% OF THEIR BRAINS.
A VERY HIGH RATIO.
YOUR ANCESTORS?
NO. ONLY THE GENERATION
BEFORE US.
THEN WHAT HAPPENED?
HE BROUGHT SICKNESS AND DEATH.
Agmar: A HUMAN CAME.
TO SAVE US FROM HIS DISEASE.
BUT HE ALSO WORKED
McCoy: THERE ARE EVIDENCES
OF GRAM-POSITIVE BACTERIA.
IT'S CARRIED BY HUMANOIDS
WITHOUT ILL EFFECT,
BUT STAPHYLOCOCCUS STRAINS
DON'T SEEM TO BE NATIVE
TO THIS PLANET.
IT MUST HAVE BEEN
LIKE A PLAGUE.
WE HAD NO WAY OF KNOWING
WHAT WAS HAPPENING.
YOU WERE ALIVE THEN?
Agmar: VERY YOUNG.
[SHRIEKING]
PRIMITIVE AND AGGRESSIVE.
PLANT LIFE, CAPTAIN.
ON ANY SETTING, SIR.
THEY WON'T WORK
THERE IS A WEAPONS DEACTIVATOR
IN EFFECT HERE.
YOUR DESTRUCTIVE MACHINES
WILL HAVE NO EFFECT.
AFTER YOU, JIM.
I THINK IT'S
KIRK TO ENTERPRISE.
Sulu: CAPTAIN!
[SHRIEKING]
THEY'LL DO WITH US, SIR?
WHAT DO YOU THINK
SOMETHING TELLS ME
WE'VE JUST BEEN USED AS A
DIVERSIONARY TACTIC. LOOK.
BUT THERE WAS NO OTHER WAY.
I'M SORRY, CAPTAIN KIRK,
WHAT ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT?
WHERE HAVE THEY TAKEN SPOCK?
TO SERVE A GREATER CAUSE.
HE HAS BEEN CHOSEN
THE MASTER HAS SEARCHED
A SPECIMEN LIKE SPOCK.
MANY YEARS TO FIND
ALL THE WORLDS OF THE GALAXY
AND NOW,
WILL SHARE IN THE BEAUTY
OF PEACE AND HARMONY.
SO HELP ME IF YOU
DON'T TELL ME WHERE
SPOCK HAS BEEN TAKEN.
PRAISE TO THE MASTER.
THE MASTER.
THE MASTER, OUR SAVIOR.
PRAISE TO THE MASTER.
SAVIOR, OUR MASTER.
ANOTHER PLANT?
NO, DEFINITELY HUMAN, JIM.
I AM DR. STAVOS KENICLIUS 5.
WELCOME TO PHYLOS,
CAPTAIN KIRK.
Kirk: WHERE IS SPOCK?
THE ESSENCE OF HIM IS MINE.
Keniclius: HE IS MINE.
RETURN TO YOUR SHIP.
HERE IS YOUR COMMUNICATOR.
GO BACK TO YOUR SHIP.
NOT WITHOUT MY FIRST OFFICER.
I AM SORRY, CAPTAIN.
OR SUFFER THE CONSEQUENCES.
YOU WILL LEAVE NOW
[SHRIEKING]
KIRK TO ENTERPRISE.
BEAM US UP, SCOTTY.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 5554.8.
THE MOST FASCINATING DISCOVERIES
WE HAVE COME UPON ONE OF
WE HAVE EVER SEEN.
PLANT LIFE OF EXTRAORDINARY
INTELLIGENCE AND TECHNOLOGY.
HOWEVER, THEY HAVE
CAPTURED MR. SPOCK,
APPARENTLY, UNDER THE ORDERS
OF A HUMAN NAMED KENICLIUS.
ANY REFERENCE TO SUCH A MAN
IS TRYING TO LOCATE
LIEUTENANT UHURA
THE MYSTERY OF THIS GIANT HUMAN.
IN ORDER TO UNRAVEL
ANYTHING, MR. SULU?
WE HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO PICK UP
ANY HUMAN LIFE FORM READINGS,
SIR.
SPOCK AND KENICLIUS
MUST BE SOMEWHERE
OUR SENSOR SCANS
CAN'T PENETRATE.
WHAT ABOUT THE PHYLOSIANS?
THAT THEY'RE PLANT LIFE FORMS.
I HAD TO ADJUST FOR THE FACT
THE SWOOPERS, IN ABUNDANCE.
THE LESSER ONES, LIKE
WE'RE REGISTERING
AND THE OTHER FOUR.
NO SIGN OF AGMAR
ABOUT A WEAPONS DEACTIVATOR.
AGMAR SAID SOMETHING
MR. SULU, LOCK SHIP'S PHASERS
ON THAT LABORATORY BUILDING.
USE A WIDE AREA STUN SETTING.
AYE, SIR.
LIEUTENANT UHURA,
HOW ARE YOU COMING
WITH THAT INFORMATION
ON KENICLIUS?
NOTHING CURRENT, CAPTAIN.
I MAY HAVE FOUND SOMETHING
IN THE HISTORY BANKS.
I'LL HAVE IT IN A MOMENT.
KEEP TRYING, LIEUTENANT.
PHASERS LOCKED ON
AND READY, SIR.
-FIRE PHASERS.
-FIRING.
NO EFFECT, CAPTAIN.
PHASER STUN WAS NEUTRALIZED
AT A DISTANCE OF 1,000 METERS
ABOVE THE AREA.
WHICH MEANS OUR WEAPONS
ARE USELESS,
AND WE HAVE NO ALTERNATIVE
BUT TO GO BACK DOWN THERE
AND TRY TO RESCUE SPOCK
WITHOUT THEM.
TO CLUBS AND KNIVES.
I'D HATE TO RESORT
MORE EFFECTIVE, MR. SULU.
THERE MAY BE SOMETHING
-KIRK TO ENGINEERING. SCOTTY?
-Scotty: HERE, SIR.
HOW'S THAT SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
COMING ALONG?
MY ENGINEERS ARE WORKING
ON IT NOW, SIR.
WITHIN THE HOUR.
YOU'LL HAVE IT
VERY WELL, MR. SCOTT.
KIRK OUT.
I HAVE THE INFORMATION
NOW, SIR. I'LL PUT IT
ON THE MAIN SCREEN.
THANK YOU, LIEUTENANT.
BONES?
ONE OF MY GREAT-GREAT-
GRANDDADDIES, WAY BACK,
HAD THE FINEST GARDEN
IN THE SOUTH.
HAD TO SCRAMBLE AROUND A LITTLE
BIT TO FIND THE MATERIALS,
HIS RECIPE BREWING NOW.
BUT I'VE GOT
Computer: WORKING.
FROM EARTH HISTORY FILE.
STAVOS KENICLIUS.
PERIOD, EUGENICS WARS.
EARTH SCIENTIST,
PERFECT SPECIMEN PROTOTYPE
PLANNED TO CLONE
INTO MASTER RACE.
CONCEPT CONSIDERED
ANTI-HUMANISTIC.
BANNED FROM COMMUNITY.
DISAPPEARED.
NO EVIDENCE OF DEATH.
NO FURTHER DATA.
THERE USED TO BE A STORY
ABOUT A MODERN DIOGENES
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE SPECIAL.
WANDERING THE GALAXY
A PERFECT SPECIMEN, PERHAPS.
SOMEONE SPECIAL.
YES, I'VE HEARD IT, TOO.
HE'D BE OVER 250 YEARS OLD!
IT COULDN'T BE KENICLIUS.
NOT IF HE CLONED A NEW COPY
OF HIMSELF EVERY SO OFTEN
TO CARRY ON THE SEARCH.
HE WAS KENICLIUS 5.
REMEMBER, HE SAID
Kirk: IT SEEMS INCREDIBLE
A FEW CELLS FROM HIS BODY
THAT A MAN COULD TAKE
AND REPRODUCE HIMSELF FROM THEM
TIME AFTER TIME.
EXACTLY WHAT WE'RE DEALING WITH
BUT THAT SEEMS TO BE
IN THE GIANT HUMAN KENICLIUS.
I HOPE THESE THINGS WORK.
WELL, THE EQUIPMENT'S
GUARANTEED,
ABOUT THE STUFF INSIDE.
BUT I HAVE MY DOUBTS
TO HANDLE ALIENS.
A STRANGE WAY
THESE ARE STRANGE ALIENS
WE'RE FIGHTING.
AS SOON AS WE BEAM DOWN,
SCOTTY,
I WANT YOU TO LEAVE ORBIT.
IF THEY THINK WE'VE GONE,
THEY WON'T BE SCANNING
THE SURFACE.
GIVE US 30 MINUTES.
BUT I DON'T LIKE IT.
AYE, SIR,
NEITHER DO I, BUT IT APPEARS
TO BE NECESSARY.
ENERGIZE.
NO INDICATION OF A SCAN.
[BEEPING]
I DON'T THINK THEY KNOW
WE'RE HERE.
LET'S GO.
[SWOOPERS SHRIEKING]
I CAN TAKE TOO MUCH OF THIS.
I'M NOT SURE
THEY'RE ALMOST MINDLESS,
DOCTOR.
THEY SEEM TO ATTACK PRIMARILY
AS A REFLEX ACTION.
IT'S CLEAR NOW.
Sulu: I CAN'T BELIEVE IT.
INCREDIBLE!
GETTING READY TO GO ON A TRIP.
McCoy: LOOKS LIKE THEY'RE
Kirk: BUT WHERE?
TO WHAT PURPOSE?
INDICATES A MASS MIGRATION.
THE NUMBER OF SHIPS
OR INVASION.
AGMAR SAID THEY WERE
A PEACEFUL PEOPLE.
SURE THEY ARE -- NOW.
BUT WHAT ABOUT BEFORE?
YOU COULD HAVE A POINT, BONES.
THOSE SHIPS, THE CITY.
BUILT A TECHNOLOGY
THE PHYLOSIANS
POSSIBLY GREATER THAN ANYTHING
WE ANIMAL SPECIES DID.
THEY NEVER GOT OFF THE GROUND.
McCoy: THE SHIPS LOOK LIKE
COULD BE THE DISEASE KENICLIUS
ACCIDENTALLY BROUGHT HERE
SWEPT THE PLANET BEFORE
THEY COULD DO WHATEVER
THEY WERE GOING TO DO.
ANY INDICATION OF KENICLIUS
OR SPOCK?
NO, SIR.
ONLY THE PHYLOSIANS.
WELL, FOLLOWERS CAN BE LED.
AS PERSUASIVE AS KENICLIUS.
LET'S HOPE WE CAN BE
WE DON'T WANT TO HURT YOU,
AGMAR,
BUT WE MUST HAVE SPOCK BACK.
THAT IS POSSIBLE.
I DO NOT THINK
THE VULCAN-HUMAN BLEND
OF WISDOM, SENSE OF ORDER,
DURABILITY AND STRENGTH
THE MASTER HAS EVER FOUND.
IS THE FINEST
SPOCK WILL CARRY ON OUR WORK.
WE ARE PLEASED
CARRY ON YOUR WORK?
OF A DYING PEOPLE, CAPTAIN.
WE ARE THE LAST
ONCE, WE HAD A GREAT MISSION.
THEN DISEASE DECIMATED US.
WE FEW ARE THE FRAIL REMNANT
OF WHAT SURVIVED.
HAVE BEEN DESTROYED.
OUR SPORE CELLS
NO MORE OF OUR KIND.
THERE WILL BE
WHAT IF SOMETHING HAPPENS
TO SPOCK OR THE MASTER?
THERE WILL ALWAYS
BE A MASTER.
BUT COME. YOU ARE WORRIED
ABOUT YOUR FRIEND.
I WILL SHOW YOU HE IS SAFE
AND IN GOOD HANDS.
JUST LIKE THAT, CAPTAIN?
SO IT WOULD APPEAR, MR. SULU.
KEEP THAT BAG HANDY.
ALL THE SAME,
IS THROUGH HERE, GENTLEMEN.
Agmar: THE WAY
FROM THE SOIL, CAPTAIN.
Agmar: WE SPRANG
THESE TUNNELS WERE ONCE
PART OF OUR HOME.
TO ILLUMINATE OUR WAY.
THIS WILL SERVE
WE COULDN'T FIND SPOCK.
[TRICORDER BEEPING]
NO WONDER
THE WALLS ARE 600 TIMES
DENSER THAN LEAD,
TO THE SURFACE FORCE FIELD.
IN ADDITION
DID YOU HEAR SOMETHING?
[FLUTTERING]
I'M NOT SURE.
WHAT?
NOT MUCH FURTHER NOW, CAPTAIN.
Agmar:
[FLAPPING]
THERE IT IS AGAIN,
A FLAPPING SOUND.
-AGMAR!
-Sulu: USE THE BELT LIGHTS!
THEY DON'T OPERATE. AGMAR!
[SWOOPERS SHRIEKING]
WE'VE GOT TO FIND SOME LIGHT.
RUN.
WE CAN'T DO ANYTHING
UNLESS WE CAN SEE
WHAT WE'RE FIGHTING.
TRY TO STAY TOGETHER.
Kirk: DON'T STOP.
McCoy: JIM, UP AHEAD.
Kirk: I SEE IT. I SEE IT.
KEEP GOING.
HE'S DYING.
SOMETHING'S HAPPENED
TO HIS BRAIN.
ELECTRICAL ACTIVITY
DECREASING.
IT'S TOO LATE, CAPTAIN KIRK!
Keniclius:
YOUR FRIEND WILL BE GONE.
IN A FEW MINUTES,
BUT AS KENICLIUS 1 LIVES ON
IN EACH OF HIS CLONES,
SO WILL MR. SPOCK.
THE DAWNING OF A NEW ERA,
BEHOLD, GENTLEMEN,
THE SALVATION OF A GALAXY!
SPOCK TWO!
[SWOOPERS SHRIEKING]
Kirk: GET READY.
[SWOOPERS SHRIEKING
FRANTICALLY]
THE CHEMICAL SPRAYER IS EMPTY.
CAPTAIN, I'M OUT.
MINE, TOO, JIM.
WAIT. LISTEN.
McCoy: MAYBE THEY'RE WAITING
FOR THE MIST TO CLEAR.
WELL, HOW ABOUT THAT.
GREAT-GRANDDADDY'S WEED SPRAY
STILL WORKS.
WE'VE GOT TO GET SPOCK OUT OF
HERE BEFORE KENICLIUS RETURNS.
NEVER MIND THAT.
THE ENTERPRISE BACK BY NOW.
SCOTT SHOULD HAVE
KIRK TO ENTERPRISE.
NOTHING.
THESE BLASTED WALLS AGAIN.
MUST BE
KIRK TO ENTERPRISE.
IT'S NO USE, JIM.
IN A FEW MINUTES.
HE'LL BE DEAD
HE NO LONGER THINKS.
HIS MIND IS GONE.
HAS DRAINED HIS MIND SOMEHOW.
THIS MACHINE
MORE THAN JUST DRAINED.
Keniclius:
IT'S BEEN TRANSFERRED, RELOCATED
INTO THE MECHANISM ITSELF.
EXACT PHYSIOLOGICAL STRUCTURE.
I CAN DUPLICATE
THAT WHICH IS LEARNED.
I CANNOT DUPLICATE
TRANSFERRED HIS KNOWLEDGE
JUST AS MY PREDECESSOR
TO ME
THROUGH THIS APPARATUS,
I HAVE DONE THAT WITH MR. SPOCK
AND THE FIRST OF HIS CLONES.
YOU TALK ABOUT CREATING LIFE
WITH YOUR CLONES,
BUT YOU HAVE TO MURDER
TO DO IT.
COME ON.
OUT OF MY WAY, MISTER.
THAT'S AN ORDER.
HE UNDERSTANDS.
I DON'T THINK
HIS MIND IS STILL TRYING
TO ASSIMILATE
ALL THE KNOWLEDGE
IT'S BEEN FED.
KEEP TRYING, LIEUTENANT.
WE'VE GOT TO MAKE CONTACT
WITH THE CAPTAIN.
IT'S NO USE, MR. SCOTT.
I CAN'T GET THROUGH.
ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEMS,
EXCEPT FOR
POWER LOAD OF THE SHIP
I WANT THE ENTIRE
A TIGHT BEAM TRANSMISSION.
REDIRECTED INTO
BREAK THROUGH THE SHIELDING,
WE CAN REACH THE CAPTAIN.
IF WE CAN
YOU'RE RISKING A TOTAL DRAIN
OF OUR DILITHIUM CRYSTALS.
MR. SCOTT,
TO MAINTAIN COMMUNICATION,
WE WOULD HAVE TO BURN OUT
ALL OUR RESERVES.
AND DON'T I KNOW IT, LASS.
BUT WE MUST SPEAK
TO THE CAPTAIN.
[SHRILL BEEPING]
HE'S COMING OUT OF IT, JIM.
HE'S BECOMING CONSCIOUS
AND AWARE.
Kirk: SPOCK, WHAT IS THE LOGIC
IN LETTING A MAN DIE
CREATING HIS DUPLICATE?
FOR THE SAKE OF
EXPLAIN IT TO ME, SIR.
EXPLAIN IT TO ME.
ALL POWER SOURCES LOCKED IN,
MR. SCOTT.
THEN THROW THE SWITCH,
LIEUTENANT.
MEANINGLESS DEATH OF ANY BEING.
VULCANS DO NOT CONDONE THE
SPOCK'S DEATH IS MEANINGLESS
A GIANT VERSION OF HIMSELF.
IF IT IS ONLY TO CREATE
IT IS NOT JUST A DUPLICATE!
HE WILL BE THE BEGINNING
OF A MASTER RACE. HE...
[BEEPING]
THAT'S OUR SHIP CALLING, SPOCK.
YOU ANSWER THEM.
THERE ISN'T MUCH TIME LEFT.
SPOCK IS SLIPPING AWAY.
I'M SURE WE'RE GETTING THROUGH,
BUT THEY'RE NOT ACKNOWLEDGING.
-KEEP TRYING.
-MR. SCOTT,
ON THE DILITHIUM CRYSTALS NOW.
WE'RE NEAR THE DRAIN POINT
-OUR RESERVES...
-KEEP TRYING.
COMMANDER SPOCK HERE.
Uhura: OH, THANK HEAVEN.
I'VE LOCATED MORE INFORMATION
MR. SPOCK, TELL THE CAPTAIN
ABOUT KENICLIUS.
CHECK OUT ALL KNOWN WRITINGS
I HAD THE LIBRARY COMPUTER
BY KENICLIUS.
BUT THERE IS A RECURRING THEME
IN HIS LATER ESSAYS
THEY ARE OBSCURE,
ABOUT USING HIS MASTER RACE
AS A PEACE-KEEPING FORCE
THROUGHOUT THE GALAXY.
WANTED A PERFECT SPECIMEN.
THAT WAS WHY KENICLIUS
REACHED POWER DRAIN THRESHOLD.
I HAVE TO SIGN OFF. WE'VE
[SIGHS IN RELIEF]
THAT'S WHAT I CALL CLOSE,
MR. SCOTT.
INFORMATION THEY COULD USE.
LET'S HOPE IT WAS
ALL THIS HAS BEEN A WASTE,
KENICLIUS.
FEDERATION FOR OVER 100 YEARS.
THERE'S BEEN PEACE IN THE
THAT IS A LIE.
WHAT ABOUT THE EUGENICS WARS?
THE GALACTIC WARS?
WHAT OF THE DEPREDATIONS
OF THE ROMULANS,
THE KLINGONS AND THE KZINTI?
AN ARMY OF SPOCK DUPLICATES
IS NECESSARY TO SUBDUE THEM.
YOU'RE THE FIFTH KENICLIUS.
Kirk:
WHAT MAKES YOU SO SURE
WHAT YOU BELIEVE IS TRUTH
ISN'T JUST OLD NEWS?
COULD HAVE BEEN OUT OF TOUCH
YOUR PREDECESSORS
WITH OUR ADVANCES
FOR TWO CENTURIES.
THE MASTER ALWAYS
SPEAKS THE TRUTH.
I CAN UNDERSTAND WHY YOU THINK
KENICLIUS IS THE MASTER
IF HE SAVED YOU FROM DYING,
WITH HIS PLAN OF A SUPER RACE?
BUT WHY DO YOU AGREE
WHICH YOU SAW WAS TO BE LAUNCHED
OUR FLEET OF SHIPS
FOR THE SAME PURPOSE
THE MASTER INTENDS.
WE COULD CARRY OUT OUR OWN PLAN
DISEASE STRUCK US BEFORE
TO IMPOSE PEACE ON A GALAXY
THAT KNEW NONE.
WE ALREADY HAVE PEACE
IN THE FEDERATION.
IT WASN'T IMPOSED.
IT WAS AGREED UPON.
YOU HAVE NO NEED OF SPOCK.
REVERSE THE EFFECTS OF THAT
MACHINE AND LET US TAKE HIM.
NO! THE MOLD MUST BE BROKEN.
JIM, SPOCK'S ALMOST GONE.
[SLOW BEEPING]
IF YOU HAVE SPOCK'S MIND,
YOU'LL KNOW THE VULCAN SYMBOL
CALLED THE IDIC.
IN INFINITE COMBINATIONS.
INFINITE DIVERSITY
THAT CREATE TRUTH AND BEAUTY.
SYMBOLIZING THE ELEMENTS
COULD AN ARMY OF SPOCKS IMPOSE
PEACE AND PHYLOSIAN PHILOSOPHY
IN DEFIANCE OF THE IDIC CONCEPT?
ON ANY OTHER BEINGS
I DO NOT BELIEVE SO.
REVERSE THE MACHINE,
KENICLIUS.
NO!
NOT BE ALLOWED TO DIE.
OUR DREAM MUST
YOU'VE KILLED SPOCK!
MURDERER!
TO PERSIST IN THIS BEHAVIOR,
CAPTAIN,
IS TO NEGATE THE ELOQUENCE
OF YOUR PREVIOUS ARGUMENT.
A MORE CONSTRUCTIVE WAY?
MAY I SUGGEST
MY MIND TO YOUR MIND,
TO YOUR THOUGHTS.
MY THOUGHTS
THE VULCAN MIND TOUCH!
I AM PLEASANTLY SURPRISED
AT YOUR CAPACITY
FOR DEDUCTIVE REASONING,
CAPTAIN.
WHEN YOU ARE NOT BEING
BELLICOSE,
THERE APPEARS TO BE
NO END TO YOUR ARSENAL
OF FORMIDABLE TALENTS.
SPOCK. SPOCK, YOU OLD...
AND YOU NEEDN'T WORRY,
CAPTAIN KIRK,
ABOUT A MASTER RACE.
THERE WILL BE NO MILITIA,
NO OTHER SPOCKS.
BUT WHAT OF MY WORK?
IF ALL I HAVE LIVED FOR
IS ALREADY DONE,
IF THE TIMES I FEARED
ARE GONE,
WHAT IS TO BECOME OF ME?
WHY I SHOULD CONTINUE TO EXIST.
THERE APPEARS TO BE NO REASON
I WOULD SUGGEST DR. KENICLIUS
REMAIN ON PHYLOS
WITH MY DUPLICATE.
THE CONCERTED EFFORTS
OF BOTH SCIENTISTS
OF THE PHYLOSIAN CIVILIZATION
MAY YET ACHIEVE A REBIRTH
CONTRIBUTE TO THE FEDERATION.
AND ENABLE THEM TO
MY THOUGHTS EXACTLY,
MR. SPOCK.
SO ONE MIGHT ASSUME,
HOW DOES THAT SOUND TO YOU,
KENICLIUS?
AS IMPORTANT AS BRINGING PEACE.
TO BRING LIFE IS AT LEAST
I--I WOULD BE HONORED.
IF I WILL BE ALLOWED.
I'LL REPORT YOUR WORK HERE.
I THINK THE FEDERATION
WILL UNDERSTAND.
BY THE WAY, MR. SULU,
ANY CHANCE OF TEACHING ME
THAT BODY THROW?
COULD COME IN HANDY SOMETIME.
I DON'T KNOW, SIR.
IT ISN'T JUST PHYSICAL,
YOU KNOW.
YOU HAVE TO BE INSCRUTABLE.
INSCRUTABLE?
SULU, YOU'RE THE MOST
SCRUTABLE MAN I KNOW.